For this task, I originally thought we were just supposed to use the patching code on each mask/image, and if one of them didn't get a coverage of 90% we were supposed to change the parameters until we achieved that threshold. So, I ended up using the code for each mask, and I ended up with 5 masks that weren't patched up to 90%. I then tinkered with the parameters for each mask until the patches covered 90% of the mask, and in doing so I realized that moving certain parameters in certain directions work well for addressing specific issues. 

The main issues that I ran into were that there were a lot of large patches which were meant to cover larger portions of the epithelium, however there were many instances where having many small patches would've done a better job than one big patch. So I often found myself trying to change the parameters in a way that would limit this issue.

I noticed that decreasing the smoothing_size and extension_factor parameters addressed this issue well, as they can both impact how large of a patch will be created (based on my understanding of the code which I am not 100% positive about). So, I decided to test a smoothing size of 70 (instead of the original 100) and extension factor of 1 (instead of 1.1) on all of my masks. I chose those numbers somewhat arbitrarily, though also with knowledge from the trial-and-error I went through to try to get the masks to be 90% originally.

These numbers yielded great results, better than the original parameters did for my masks -- significantly more masks were over 95% covered, and only a couple were beneath 90% (but they were very close). There were some instances of large patches where smaller patches could've replaced them, but less than there were originally, so this improvement seemed to work on my end. 

(Side note: on the "Epithelium Annotation" spreadsheet, I marked the issues that I ran into with my original 5 poorly patched slices and the steps I went through to get them over 90% covered. In my final product, I didn't use all of these improvements, I rather chose one set of parameters that seemed to work well, and applied that to all the original images.)
